## Project description
In this project, I have implemented the variational method using Lagrange multipliers. As stated in the project description, I have used my own implementation of quasi-Newton rootfinding and QGRS decomposition for solving linear systems. The quasi-Newton method implemented in the "roots" homework uses a numerical approximation of the Jacobian matrix. However, in this case, the function used for root-finding has an analytical Jacobian, which has been implemented inthe quasi-Newton routine. The structure of my implementation is described below.
\
## Implementation
In the file "lagrange.cs" I have implemented an EigenSearch method which takes a symmetric matrix A and an initial eigenvalue as parameters and returns an eigenvalue close to the initial guess, as well as the corresponding eigenvector. This method defines a vector function f which is passed onto the quasi-Newton rootfinding routine. The function lives in an n+1 dimensional space: n components of the (to be found) eigenvector v - where n is the dimension of the symmetric matrix A - and 1 component in shape of the eigenvalue $\lambda$. The action of the function is to cast the eigenvector components into the partial derivatives of the Lagrangian function at the stationary point: $f(\textbf{v},\lambda) = (A\textbf{v} - \lambda \textbf{v}, \textbf{v}^T\textbf{v}-1)$, thus satisfying the n+1 dimensionality. Note that as mentioned above, this function has an analytical Jacobian. The rootfinding routine finds the root of this function in the n+1 space spanned by all eigenvector compenents and $\lambda$ by performing backtracking line search. At exactly the stationary point, $\lambda$ is an eigenvalue of $\textbf{v}$ (which, due to the constraint, is found in normalized form). Since rootfinding finds exactly a stationary point, the result of performing rootfinding is interpreted as follows: the first n parameters correspond to the components of an eigenvector, and the last corresponds to the eigenvalue of said eigenvector. The routine is tested on a randomly generated 5x5 symmetric matrix, yielding a numerically correct eigenvector and eigenvalue (see out.txt).
\
## Hydrogen ground state
The implemented routine can be used to solve the Hydrogen ground state problem $H\psi = E\psi$. Since the routine returns both an eigenvector and an eigenvalue, the ground state energy and radial wave function of Hydrogen can be found by searching for eigenvalues close to -0.5 (assuming the energy dimensionality of the problem to be in Hartree). This is done by defining the Hamiltonian matrix as we did in the "eigenvalue" homework and performing the implemented EigenSearch algorithm on it. Doing this search results in a found eigenvalue of $E_g = -0.4997 \: E_h$. The corresponding eigenvector is plotted and compared to the analytical solution of the radial wave function, matching to a very satisfactory degree. Results of the search are found in out.txt and HGS.png.      
